For the majority of people, deciding what to write about is even more challenging than the process of writing it, 
especially when it comes to health essays. There are so many fascinating health essay topics that it’s next to impossible to choose the right one – you need to consider 
the scope of the topic and its difficulty level, its relevance to the course you’re taking, and your own familiarity with it.

To make it easier for you, we’ve compiled a list of some of the most intriguing health research topics that will inspire you to start writing. Go over the list, 
and choose a topic that speaks to you.

How to Choose a Health Essay Topic
Before we get into our top health topics to write about, it’s a good idea to go over a few tips that could help you make a choice. It will take some time and effort, but it will 
be well worth it.

Consider the length of your paper – it will help you determine the right subject. If the paper is just one or two pages long, you won’t be able to get into the details of a broad 
topic like “Everything we know about diabetes so far.” If it’s much longer and you go for a very narrow topic, you might not have enough information to meet the word count.
Define your course curriculum and everything you learned in the semester before you received the writing assignment – you’ll want your topic to be relevant to the course. 
Go over the contents of your textbook and skim through your notes to find which direction to take.
Jot down a few broader subject matters that spark your interest. After all, if you’re not passionate about the topic you choose, you’ll find it more difficult to commit to research 
and writing. Come up with a few ideas, do some preliminary research to understand each topic better, then go for the one that seems the most interesting to you.
List Of Health Essay Topics
To start the list, we’ll first go over some of the more general essay topics on health. They can be ideal for high school students doing a paper for biology class or even college 
students writing advanced papers for their foreign language class.

Why Should we Stop Food Waste?
What the Mind Can Conceive the Body Can Achieve
Water Sanitation and Hygiene
Beauty Contest Setting up Non Achievable Beauty Standards In The Society
Suggestions of Affordable Care Act
Social Media Impact on Food
Should Schools Serve Fast Food for Lunch
Pros and Cons of Birth Control
Mother-Adult Daughter Relationships Within Dementia Care
Influences on Nutrient Intake and Food Choices
Impacts of Healthy Eating on Humans' Life
Healthcare Innovation and Disruption Assignment
Fast Food is Killing Everyone
Blood is Thicker Than Water Essay
Affordable Care Act - What is It?
The Role of Family in Youth’s Drug Addiction
The Ebola Crisis in Sierra Leone: A Reflective Report
The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the Hospitality Industry
Misuse of Antibiotic: A Silent Threat to Bangladesh
Should Euthanasia Be Legalized in Canada?
Some Relevant Public Health Essay Topics
Writing about public health has always been of interest to many students and medical professionals alike. The current events and the COVID-19 pandemic have only made public 
health essay topics more popular.

Dental Public Health Professional Development
The Role And Importance Of Modern Public Health
The Peculiarities Of American Public Health Act
The Roles And Duties Of Public Health Practitioners
Violence Against Women: A Public Health Problem
The Significance Of Yoga In Public Health
Strategies Used For Developing Public Health Policy
Public Health England: The Contemporary Issue Of Suicide In Adult Males
Public Health Measure Against Infectious Diseases In Japan
Infectious Diseases And Public Health
TOP-5 free essay samples on Health
Arguments In Favour Of And Against Euthanasia
The Importance Of CPR Lessons
Depression In College Students: Causes And Solutions
Marijuana Addiction: Effects On Human Brain And Financial Problems
The Peculiarities Of Universal Healthcare In The World
Mental Health Essay Topics
Although one can explore a certain mental health issue, it is also possible to help your college assignment stand out by focusing on the reasons how 
a mental health problem can be dealt with. Think about choosing something that will help you analyze, reflect and pose your opinion.

Sleep Deprivation Among Nurses in Florida and How to Prevent It
Causes of Stress Essay
Causes of Suicidal Tendencies among Youth Essay
Analytical Essay on Diagnosing Anxiety Disorder
PTSD and Bipolar Disorder: Comparative Analysis
Anxiety Versus Anxiety Disorders: Comparative Analysis
Representation of Eating Disorder and Feminism in Nervous Conditions
Influence of Mass Media and Body Dissatisfaction on the Risk of Developing Eating Disorders in Adolescents
Relationship between Sports, Social Development and Mental Breakdown in Athletes
Teacher's Strategy in Teaching English to Students with Intellectual Disability: Work with Mental Retardation Students
Brief Overview of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Critical Thinking Thesis on Learning Disabilities
Healthcare Essay Topics
Over the past few years, healthcare has become a pressing concern for young Americans. With healthcare costs rising, poor insurance coverage, 
and inadequate employee benefits, it’s only natural that healthcare discussions are picking up. Take a look at some of the top healthcare essay topics you could write about.

Healthcare Innovation and Disruption Assignment
Discrimination in Health Care
Medicaid Management Services
Accountability on Context of Health Sector
Essay on Health Care and Funding for American Veterans
Essay on Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare
Medicaid Program: History, Advantages and Disadvantages, Perspectives
Respecting Patient’s Dignity in Delivering Quality Palliative Care