Our own city, Fort Worth, is home to three world-renowned museums: The Amon Carter Museum of American Art, The Kimbell Art Museum and the Modern Art Museum. This city’s moniker of “Cowboys and Culture” is apt—a merging of Fort Worth’s rich western history as equally shaped by cowboys, expansive ranches, the Chisolm Trail AND important fine art institutions. It is the cultural arts that elevate our city onto the international stage.

Art can communicate information, shape our everyday lives, make a social statement and be enjoyed for aesthetic beauty. Tarrant County College reinforces Fort Worth’s rich culture. Each campus offers a variety of fine art experiences for students of all majors to attend and become inspired. These opportunities include theater performances, music concerts, dance performances and visual art gallery exhibitions. Trinity River Campus is even home to a large techno-centric art collection. These free resources represent an extension of the classroom and can be utilized and appreciated by the entire community.

In an informal conversation with Scott Robinson, dean of humanities at the Trinity River Campus, several Design I students were discussing the importance of art and why it is necessary in an academic environment. Through much discussion and some arguing, the group concluded that the arts are necessary to give meaning to things. The sciences provide the facts and information that give order to our world and are at the vanguard of innovation and human achievement. For example, science can teach us about the life cycle of organisms. It explains why organisms age, it provides the ability to prolong life through medicine and it gives an insight into the workings of death and decay.

On the other hand, art can give meaning to the concept of death. Egyptians mummified individuals and laid them to rest in magnificent tombs, while present-day humans place loved ones in the ground (or in mausoleums) and decorate that resting place with plaques, memorials and flowers. El Dia de los Muertos celebrates the passing of loved ones and remembers them through visitations, offerings and the belief that their souls remain near. These cultural practices, combined with our scientific understanding, allow us to process life and death 