Art is a variety of human activities in the creation of visual, auditory, or performance (kinesthetic) works, to express the author's creative or conceptual ideas or artistic skill, intended to be appreciated for their beauty or emotional power. Other activities related to the production of artwork include art criticism, the study of art history, and the aesthetic dissemination of art.
The three classical branches of art are painting, sculpture, and architecture. Music, theatre, film, dance and other performing arts, as well as literature and other media such as interactive media, are included in a broader definition of arts. Until the seventeenth century, art referred to any skill or mastery and was not distinguished from crafts or sciences. In modern usage after the seventeenth century, in which aesthetic considerations have become paramount, the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general, such as the decorative or applied arts.
Although the definition of art is a controversial topic, and has changed over time, general descriptions refer to the idea of ??a creative skill or technique developed by humans. The nature of art and related concepts, such as creativity and interpretation, are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics.
Defining and evaluating art has become a special problem since the early twentieth century. Definitions of art have been distinguished by Richard Wollhem on three approaches.
Realism, where aesthetic quality is an absolute value independent of human opinion.
Objectivity, where it is also an absolute value, but depends on the general human experience.
Relativism, which is not an absolute value, but rather the philosophical approach that lacks the existence of an absolute truth.
In the past, art was divided into seven sections, namely:
(sculpture/architecture), (drawing/decoration), (representative painting/pure coloring), (expressive or descriptive music/music), (gesture/dance), (literature/poetry), (cinema/lighting).
Recently, however, it has been divided into three comprehensive sections:
Plastic arts, such as: (painting, photography, calligraphy, design, architecture, sculpture, applied arts, lights).
Vocal art, such as: (music, singing, the world of cinema and theater, advertising, poetry, stories, intonation and recitation).
Kinetic art, such as: (dance, circus, magic games, some sports, acrobats and clowning, meme theater, puppets).
