Stages of development of the modern economy
After the July Revolution
The Egyptian economy went through a number of stages since 1952. The first stage began in 1952 and continued until 1960. It was dominated by a number of economic policies aimed at redistributing resources through clear state intervention in economic activity. The most prominent of these policies was the Agrarian Reform Law. In September 1952, the trend towards industrialization to absorb more labor and the establishment of the “Permanent Council for the Development of National Production” at the end of the same year, and the start of direct government investment through it in the Iron and Steel Company in 1954, then the nationalization of the Suez Canal in 1956 [[.]] and with the increasing intervention The state began planning with the establishment of the National Planning Committee in 1957 instead of the National Production Council.

Subscription application
In 1960, the second phase called the comprehensive planning phase began and lasted until 1966. Its most important features were comprehensive national economic planning and socialist implementation. The first comprehensive five-year plan 1960-1965 was initiated. Its implementation is based on a leading economic sector supported by several policies, the most important of which are socialist laws and setting hours. Work, wages, regulating the relationship between the landlord and the tenant, and intervening in fixing prices. This stage resulted in achieving a growth rate of 38% during the five-year plan.

war economy
In 1967, a third phase of Egyptian economic development began, which is the stage of the war economy, when the economy suffered from the problem of financing the plan and the policies served to prepare for the liberation of the occupied Egyptian territory. Military spending increased from 5.5% of the GDP in 1962 to 10% in 1967, then to 20%. % in 1973.

Economic openness
The fourth stage began in 1974 with the introduction of economic openness, and a radical shift was made in economic systems and policies. The most prominent features of this stage were the shift away from the comprehensive planning system, replacing it with annual programs in the form of moving plans, and the use of Arab and foreign capital in development through the laws of economic openness. A high growth rate was achieved during that period, amounting to 9.8%, but it was associated with growth in the service sectors without productivity.

Therefore, another stage began, which is the stage of returning to comprehensive national planning (1982-1990), and continuing the policy of economic openness and encouraging investment. President Mubarak, since assuming power in October 1981, embarked on the implementation of a national project. Therefore, the call for holding the economic conference in February 1982 was to determine from where and how the development process in Egypt begins.

During the conference, the specialists agreed on the importance of following an ambitious and continuous development strategy through the five-year plans, which began in 1982. The development process in the first phase focused on building a strong infrastructure, scheduling debts, in addition to intensifying the procedures of transition towards a market economy, the most important of which is the abolition of the planning system. the central sector and replacing it with the indicative planning method, reconsider the priorities of the plan, gradually reduce the role of the public sector, and shift to the private sector while maintaining the role of the state in managing the macro-economy in a manner that guarantees price stability, external balance, fairness in distribution, preventing monopoly, and moving from the stage of industrialization in order to Substitution of imports to the stage of manufacturing for export
Implementation of the five-year plans
The previous policies are the beginning of a new phase in the Egyptian macro-economy, and thus their effects were reflected in the first five-year plan (82/83 - 86/1987). Which is considered the second fixed plan after the first plan in 1960/1964. Due to the presence of stability and flexibility factors and the detailed objectives it contained, it can be described as a plan with “clear objectives and foundations” as it was of an applied nature in which the overall objectives were distributed over economic activities and the main attribution bodies so that Entities become fully aware of the goals to be achieved in production.

The results of the economic and financial performance confirmed a significant improvement during the outgoing fiscal year and the first quarter of the year 2007/2008. The Egyptian economy achieved a growth rate of 7.1%, which is the highest growth rate in ten years, as the gross domestic product at factor cost rose to 684.4 billion pounds.

The year 2007 witnessed the start of the five-year plan 2007/2012, which aims to achieve an annual growth rate of 8% and reduce the inflation rate to 5% by the end of the plan. It also witnessed the announcement of the largest budget in the history of Egypt, as the size of the new general budget for the year 2007/2008 about 267 billion pounds.

The year 2007 witnessed an increase in public revenues and grants by 19.1% to reach 180.2 billion pounds, as tax revenues increased by 16.9% to reach 114.3 billion pounds. 21.3% compared to the previous year. Sales tax revenue increased by 13.7% to reach 39.4 billion pounds. Customs proceeds increased by 7.4% to reach 10.4 billion pounds due to the increase in imports. Spending on wages and salaries increased by 11.6% to reach 52.1 billion pounds. Subsidies, grants and social benefits amounted to 58.4 billion pounds, and the total deficit decreased from 9.2% to 7.5% of the GDP.

A reform of the pension system has also been initiated, and a partnership system between the government and the private sector has been introduced in the implementation of development projects, indicating that a number of institutional and administrative reforms have also been implemented to determine the reform orientation and ensure its sustainability.
Egypt is a developing country that suffers from some economic problems, just like other developing countries. The policies adopted by the state have contributed to reviving the economies of some regions and sectors, such as encouraging private investments in the production and service sectors, especially banking, industries, education, trade and transport. These sectors contribute about half the value of the gross national product, while agriculture and mining each contribute about 24 percent annually. % of the value of the gross national product, which amounted to approximately 64.3 billion US dollars in 1417 AH, 1996 AD. Agriculture leads the rest of the productive crafts in Egypt in terms of importance and spread on the map of Egypt and its impact on the rest of the productive sectors
Despite the encouragement of the private sector in production and service businesses; However, the state still controls most of the major industries, including iron and steel, spinning and weaving, and the food and chemical industries, although in recent years it has started planning to implement the privatization policy in these sectors in a gradual manner to guarantee the rights of its workers. The private sector in Egypt owns many industrial facilities and most of the agricultural land. [23]

Egypt's economy depends mainly on agriculture, the media, oil, and tourism. There are also more than 5 million Egyptians working abroad, mainly in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Gulf region such as the United Arab Emirates, also there are many Egyptians in the United States of America and Europe. The main sources of funds from the outside world are as follows: Transfers of Egyptians working in foreign countries (workers in the United States and Saudi Arabia are ranked first and second, respectively)
Revenues from the tourism sector (tourists from Saudi Arabia in particular and the Arabian Gulf constitute the first center for exporting tourists to Egypt, followed by European countries, led by Italy and Germany)
Exports of petroleum products (of which gas exports constitute a major part) and transit fees in the Suez Canal (oil and the Suez Canal exchange the third and fourth ranks according to the years of study)
On the level of national income, the telecommunications sector has grown in recent years significantly to become the services sector, especially tourism and communications, which are the largest contributors to the national product, in addition to agriculture and the industrial sector. .

The completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1971 and the resulting lake built by Gamal Abdel Nasser limited arable land in Egypt. The government has struggled to prepare the economy for the new millennium through economic reform and massive investments in communications and natural infrastructure, and Egypt is a country that receives aid from the United States (since 1979 total aid has reached $2.2 billion per year, more than half of which is allocated to military aid and economic aid is being reduced annually based on a resolution of the US Congress).

Egypt is the third largest country funded by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia after Bahrain and Yemen. The economic conditions in Egypt show many promising things, as it is the first country in the Arab world to export to the countries of the world, in addition to the increasing revenues from tourism and the thriving stock market. In the annual report, the IMF considered Egypt as one of the top countries in the world that requires economic reforms. Despite this, the current conditions do not bode well for that. Many Egyptians and international institutions believe that the pace of these reforms is slow. In the annual report of countries attractive to investment, Egypt ranked 165th out of 175 countries and ranked 77 in countries that apply the policy of transparency.