ELEMENTS OF ART: The visual components of color, form, line,
shape, space, texture, and value.
Line An element of art defined by a point moving in space. Line
may be two-or three-dimensional, descriptive, implied, or
abstract.
Shape An element of art that is two-dimensional, flat, or limited to
height and width.
Form An element of art that is three-dimensional and encloses
volume; includes height, width AND depth (as in a cube, a
sphere, a pyramid, or a cylinder). Form may also be free
flowing.
Value The lightness or darkness of tones or colors. White is the
lightest value; black is the darkest. The value halfway
between these extremes is called middle gray.
Space An element of art by which positive and negative areas are
defined or a sense of depth achieved in a work of art .
Color An element of art made up of three properties: hue, value,
and intensity.
• Hue: name of color
• Value: hue’s lightness and darkness (a color’s value
changes when white or black is added)
• Intensity: quality of brightness and purity (high
intensity= color is strong and bright; low intensity=
color is faint and dull)
Texture An element of art that refers to the way things feel, or look
as if they might feel if touched.
PRINCIPLES OF ART: Balance, emphasis, movement, proportion,
rhythm, unity, and variety; the means an artist uses to organize
elements within a work of art.
Rhythm A principle of design that indicates movement, created
by the careful placement of repeated elements in a work
of art to cause a visual tempo or beat.
Balance A way of combining elements to add a feeling of
equilibrium or stability to a work of art. Major types are
symmetrical and asymmetrical.
Emphasis
(contrast)
A way of combining elements to stress the differences
between those elements.
Proportion A principle of design that refers to the relationship of
certain elements to the whole and to each other.
Gradation A way of combining elements by using a series of
gradual changes in those elements. (large shapes to
small shapes, dark hue to light hue, etc)
Harmony A way of combining similar elements in an artwork to
accent their similarities (achieved through use of
repetitions and subtle gradual changes)
Variety A principle of design concerned with diversity or
contrast. Variety is achieved by using different shapes,
sizes, and/or colors in a work of art.
Movement A principle of design used to create the look and feeling
of action and to guide the viewer’s eye throughout the
work of art
