The economic situation and its macro news and indicators are of interest to many people. For example, the visible picture in Egypt, compared to Western countries. Perhaps the reasons for this is the mental image that was formed in the ordeal economic indicators, and the data of using many of them and the use of many of them in explaining the economy, as well as their reasoning with a good amount of confusing economic indicators, which can be conflicting in some cases. . Economic indicators for presidents who use economic indicators to serve the tendency to economic influence or focus in case of opposition to the system.

Although there are some economists who maintain their objectivity in the analysis, this negative mental image is deeply entrenched, and what increases it deeper is the lack of confidence of many people in the accuracy of the economic indicators published by government agencies and the absence of the required background on the concepts of economics among many of the public. In addition, this mental image created a psychological barrier for most people and convinced them of the futility of following up on the state of the economy and its indicators because they do not benefit them in anything and do not reflect the reality of their daily lives. But is this true?
In fact, people are directly affected by the general economic situation. The growth of the economy creates new job opportunities and contributes to improving the level of income of individuals, while recession is usually accompanied by layoffs and a deterioration in the standard of living of individuals. The stability of prices in the market facilitates people's lives and guarantees them to maintain their purchasing power, while periods of inflation lead to the erosion of purchasing power and the impoverishment of individuals. Therefore, the state of the general economy has a direct impact on people's lives. Perhaps this is what prompted the American economist "Arthur Okun" to launch what he called the "misery index" in the sixties during the rule of President "Johnson", with the aim of measuring what the general people are going through economically and knowing whether they are In good or poor economic condition.

The misery index in its simplest form is calculated by adding the unemployment and inflation rates. The unemployment rate measures the percentage of those who are unable to obtain a job opportunity compared to the total labor force in the market, while the inflation rate measures the annual increase in the prices of a basket of basic goods and services in the market. Naturally, people hate the high rates of unemployment and the need to sit in cafes for a long time waiting for a job opportunity, and they also hate the large and repeated hikes in prices. Therefore, the higher the index measurement, the worse the economic situation of people and the more miserable they become, even if the economy achieved high growth rates in the same period.
Looking at the misery index in Egypt, we find that it began the new millennium (2000) at a low level of 12 percent, but it quickly rose to an average of 16 percent in the following years (2000-2008) until the arrival of the global financial crisis (2008), which was It had a great impact, which prompted the index to record its highest rate, exceeding 27 percent, and then it soon fell to nearly 20 percent before the outbreak of the January 25 revolution, which led to turmoil in the political situation and was reflected, of course, on the economic situation, which led to a rise in the index in the three years. that followed the revolution, to reach an average of 23 percent, then to record at the end of last June 23.9 percent, as the unemployment rate was 13.3 percent, while the inflation rate was 10.6 percent.
According to official figures, which made Egypt rank fifth in the world in the ranking of the most miserable countries, in a study prepared by Bloomberg Agency.

This historical development of the misery index should not be overlooked. When governments in the decade preceding the January 25 revolution were boasting about the amazing economic growth rates, the common people were fuming about the deterioration of their economic situation and asserting that the growth rates did not reflect its reality, which is indicated by the misery index, whose level doubled in this decade to confirm the suffering that people felt. . And when people complain recently that the revolution has only brought them more economic suffering and deterioration in their daily lives, this is not exaggerated, which is also confirmed by the rise in the misery index in the last four years.
Based on the foregoing, it is not logical to consider the situation of the economy and its macro indicators in isolation from people's lives. Even though some doubt the accuracy of the official figures, comparing the level of indicators over an extended period of time can reflect many economic developments and the resulting impact on people's daily lives. While the Egyptian economy is in a state of inflationary stagnation, the slowdown in economic growth will be reflected in maintaining high unemployment rates, while the expected inflation, resulting from the rise in the dollar and the rise in energy prices, will undoubtedly lead to a further rise in inflation rates, which in turn means that the extent of the misery that People suffering from it will probably be on the way to increase.
In conclusion, the negative mental image of the economy and economists has made many people lose the desire to follow up on the state of the economy and has established the idea of ??the isolation of macroeconomic indicators from the reality of their daily lives. However, this assumption is not realistic, and looking at the development of the "misery index" from the beginning of the millennium until now reflects the suffering of people and the deterioration of their condition, even if governments boast of economic growth rates. Therefore, it is in the interest of the common people to monitor the state of the general economy because of its impact on their daily lives. Macroeconomic indicators, although they cannot be fully relied upon in interpreting people's condition, can explain a lot if they are viewed objectively and integrated.