Diversity inclusive citizenship
Societal trends in the Middle East and North Africa region will result from the complex interaction between intrinsic variables and external factors.
 Whether the region or parts of it move significantly toward polarization or toward pluralism will depend heavily on the choices that society and political leaders
 make to deal with it.

The attitude towards religion will remain a main driver of societal and political dynamics, and it will remain a highly contentious issue. However, what
 we must point out in this regard is that dealing with it is witnessing profound transformations, especially among young people, fueled by new cultural 
and cognitive patterns, based on individualism, utility, practicality, and the disappearance of reference or focal point...etc.

It is likely that the fragmentation and shifts of societies from ideology to a pension discourse - based on the primacy of people's standard of living - will shape the religious
 and secular camps, in addition to all societies, and the dynamics of fragmentation, in addition to the secular religious division and division within the two camps, may lead to more 
intense conflicts related to identities .

Citizenship, commitment to diversity, and individual rights could be jeopardized by the distinction of belonging and loyalty to core identities, and the political 
exploitation of prolonged religious and secular discourses could lead to further societal conflicts and competition for control of the leadership of the two camps.

manipulating societal divisions in pursuit of regime/elite/group interests; This may clearly lead to an escalation of sectarian divisions.

Lines of exclusion will continue to be created as a feature of governance and political life, yet it is still not clear where these lines of exclusion will exist; Starting from 
nationality, race, caste, religion, caste, tribe, political affiliation, etc.

Individualism and diversity in all its forms can serve as a basis for re-exploring the concept of citizenship that embraces diversity, as the main driving force for societal
 development, and an indirect way to heal the wounds of identity conflicts, while group identities and communication structures are likely to continue to play an 
enormous role, but their potential may diminish. Polarization within divided societies, if there is a new focus on individual freedoms and rights.

A diverse religious sphere can make religious leaders accountable to ordinary believers. This may contribute to significantly reducing the exploitation of religious 
discourse, and strengthening the separation between state authority and religious institutions and organizations.

Flexible responses for the future
Perhaps the biggest challenge facing any politician in the coming decades is to develop flexible responses to change in 3 main areas that will shape the nature of political 
life in the coming years: demographics, the economy that will be affected by emerging factors that change its nature, and geopolitics.

According to a UNICEF report, the population of the Middle East will increase dramatically by 2050, from about 500 million in 2020 to 724 million in 30 years.
 Within this increase, there is a significant youth bulge which puts a certain set of pressures on states.

The challenges facing some countries are more severe than others. UNICEF estimates that the population of Egypt will grow by 60 million by 2050, while the 
population of Iraq will increase by 45 million.

The vast majority of respondents surveyed in the 2020 Arab Opinion Index survey indicated that economic issues were the most pressing problems for their countries to address. 
91% of respondents believe that corruption exists in their countries of origin, and some estimates indicate that $1 trillion has been lost due to corruption over the past 50 years. 
Corruption is a major factor in the protests that have taken place in the region over the past decade.

Economic developments in the future will be affected by new factors that interact with existing structures, resulting in new patterns in the economy.

The 4 emerging factors are:
Climate change: By 2050, climate change will be a defining global reality, but its impact will vary from region to region. The countries of the region will be among the 
most affected: the effects will be felt across the region in the form of severe weather phenomena, waves of heat and drought, desertification, severe water shortages 
and a rise in sea level.
One of the most vulnerable areas is the Nile Delta, where sea level rise of about 50 cm may force 4 million Egyptians to settle in other areas.

The region's governments and societies will have to deal with scarcity of natural resources, including food, price volatility, and risks associated with new epidemics.

Environmental degradation will magnify the economic and social challenges, especially since this coincides with the remarkable increase in the population. The ability 
to anticipate and deal with these challenges will be the key to seizing opportunities and facing risks.

Post-oil world: By 2050, a post-oil world order will prevail as a result of profound changes in the global energy system. Such a system will not arise as 
a result of a shortage in supply. On the contrary, it may increase fossil fuel production for a period of time, thanks to the discovery of new reserves, innovative investments
 in oil and oil sands, and the circulation of liquefied natural gas. Prices may remain relatively low for some time, despite increased supply from emerging economies.
 But in the long term, the main driver of decarbonization will be the giant strides towards technological innovation in the field of renewable energy production and 
storage capacities, in addition to that clean energy will be available and mass as a result of global awareness regarding environmental change. The world's two 
fastest growing global powers, China and India, will support this transformation. Europe will also invest in this process, and the region will have a major share in this transformation.
