The existence of the economy is essential to the formation and support of society. No society can survive without an economy that is efficient enough to satisfy basic needs at the very least, and every economy exists for the purpose of meeting the growing needs of people as life conditions change. Thus, the economy is one of the components of society. Society is the framework in which the economy operates. Because of this relationship, each society has its own economy, and each economy reflects the needs of society and its cultural characteristics, as well as the main features of the civilization in which it lives. That is why there were studies and research discussing this important relationship between the economy and society, and there was a strong presence of economists and sociologists to explore the depths of this Overlapping How to study and visualize the relations between the economy and society was a central problem in the social sciences from Adam Smith to Karl Marx, and from Max Weber to Karl Polanyi over the past decades, as major transformations changed the functioning and organization of the global economic system, the distribution of income and wealth, the business world and work . With the development of social sciences; Economists turned to the study of various aspects of social life to understand this relationship and discuss how it has evolved over time.

What we are witnessing in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is the planning and work of economic and social change, and the real challenge is the readiness of the Saudi society to accept these changes and to create the appropriate environment to accept this transformation in terms of education, training and work culture.

His Highness, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, may God protect him, who is the driving force behind the Vision 2030 reform plan, aims to make Saudi Arabia one of the largest economic powers in the world by diversifying the economy from an oil base to a knowledge base. This transformation includes supporting new energy sources and making Saudi Arabia a strong center for international investment.

The government’s announcement of the NEOM project and the sale of 5% of the National Oil Company (Saudi Aramco), of which 1.5% of its shares were offered for public subscription locally, aims to diversify the economy and proves the government’s ability and willingness to face the first challenge represented in implementing the transformation plan and reducing dependence on oil as a source. income to the state.

The real challenge is whether the Saudi people, who live in a culture that is very resistant to change, will show the same desire and accept the proposed reforms after providing all the support from the government agencies and agencies involved in implementing the transformation programs.

I would like to meander and talk about the reasons for my discussion in this article about a culture that is highly resistant to change in the patterns of the Saudi economy, and the main reason is due to the long period experienced by members of Saudi society in the past fifty years from the beginnings of the oil boom in the early seventies AD and the transition to a society that depends on oil revenues, as the state It enjoys, thanks to God, a high income, and its main goal was development, building people, building infrastructure, and developing the country. Because of the large geographical size of the Kingdom, building projects and infrastructure required the presence of a large number of engineers, technicians, and workers who were attracted from abroad. During these long years, structural problems were generated in the economy. The labor market also produced a work culture and social patterns that were appropriate to those conditions. In the vision of the new Kingdom, it is a great challenge to change these problems and consumption patterns, as well as the composition of the labor market.

I believe that we have begun to see the entry of citizens into some businesses and jobs that were previously practiced only by expatriates. It is necessary that there be educational and training programs and find successful models that show everyone how transformation can be done and benefit from the changes that society will reap and reflect on the individual. In addition to the expansion of business localization programs, not just jobs, for sectors whose jobs are difficult to localize at present, while they are among the sectors in which only a few Saudis work as employers, and most of them are run by covert people.

Therefore, we are in a phase of transformation and transition that requires concerted efforts between all parties to society to create an attractive environment for the settlement of the largest amount of the economy and the involvement of the largest number of citizens in jobs and businesses in order to move the wheel of the local economy, move the economic circles, circulate liquidity in the country, benefit everyone, and enjoy economic and social security that leads to prosperity and growth country and its citizens.

And we must not miss an important thing, which is that during this transformation, I wish to preserve the economic situation of groups of society who cannot adapt to the changes that occurred due to their limited income. In the eligibility for university education because, with education, they will get out of the circle of low-income people to a higher level that will enable them to rely on themselves and participate effectively in society and the economy.