The arts refer to the theory, physical expressions, or creativity found in human cultures. The basic elements of the following arts: Literature - Joyce i.e. poetry, prose, drama, Performing Arts - music, dance, theatre, visual arts - entertainment i.e. painting, painting, photography, ceramic art, sculpture, architecture - art design and architecture.
Richard Wollhem distinguishes the definition and evaluation of art into three approaches:
Realism, where aesthetic quality is an absolute value independent of any human opinion
Objectivity, where it is also an absolute value, but depends on the general human experience
Relativism, which is not of absolute value, is the philosophical approach that says there is no absolute truth.
As for the traditional concept in the history of art, it classified the field of arts according to the humanities
Art theory has its roots in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant, which was developed in the early 20th century by Roger Fry and Clive Bell. Art and environmental disguise or representation are also deeply rooted in the philosophy of Aristotle.
Currently, the word art is used to denote creative works that are subject to the common sense, such as the art of dance, music, singing, writing, or composition and composition, which is an expression of creative talent. Man began to practice art 30,000 years ago, and the drawings consisted of animal shapes and symbolic abstract signs on the walls of the caves. These works are considered to be the art of the Paleolithic era.
Thousands of years ago, people used to adorn themselves with adornments, jewelry, and dyes. In most of the great ancient societies, the identity of the individual was known through the expressive artistic forms that indicated him, as in the models and patterns of his clothes, the decoration and decoration of the body, and the customs of dancing. Or from the ceremonial or collective symbolism of the signs that were represented in the totem (material) that indicates his tribe or clan.
Al-Tutam was decorated with inscriptions to tell the story of his ancestors or their history. In small societies, the arts expressed their life or culture, so the ceremonies and dances reflected the biographies of their ancestors and their legends about creation, or sermons and educational lessons. And many peoples used art as a way to obtain help from the spiritual world in their lives. In the great societies, the rulers used to hire artists to do works that serve their political construction, as in the countries of the Incas. The upper class used to accept clothes, jewelry, and metalwork for their adornment during the 15th and 16th centuries AD, to indicate their social status. While the lower class wear coarse and tattered clothing. Currently, we find that the arts are used in major societies for a commercial, political, religious or commercial purpose and are subject to intellectual protection
Will and Eriel Durant provides us with his analysis and vision of the beginnings of the arts and their origins in the first part of his book “The Story of Civilization”, through the theories of many philosophers and researchers that he collected in his own unified vision in the following way: [And we can say that it was from dance that music playing arose Instruments as the play arose. Musical playing - it seems - arose from a person's desire to sign the dance in a signature that has intervals that define it and are accompanied by strengthening sounds ... The playing instruments were limited in range and performance, but in terms of types they were almost not limited ... He made them from animal horns, skins and shells And its ivory, and of copper, and bamboo, and wood. Then man decorated these machines with delicate colors and engravings
Professional singers grew up among the tribes, and professional dancers also grew up among them. The musical scale evolved in obscurity and dimness until it became what it is now. It is music, singing and dancing combined. He created for us the "barbaric" play and opera. This is because primitive dance was often concerned with imitation, as it simulated the movements of animals and humans... Then it moved to a performance that simulated actions and accidents... Without these “"barbarians"" and what they spent in a hundred thousand years experimenting and sensing what is destined for civilization to rise, We owe them almost everything…]
Art: a comprehensive concept that includes human creative production, and is considered a color of human culture because it is an expression of "self-expression" and not an expression of a need.
Visual/Visual Arts: A group of arts that are mainly concerned with the production of works of art that require a taste for the tangible visual vision in the different media used in their production.
Fine arts: the arts that are associated with beauty and the delicate sense necessary to appreciate them, and are currently linked to the academic study of fine classical arts.
Such as: painting, oil painting, sculpture, architecture, music and ballet.
Plastic arts: It is the production of a work of art from nature and formulated in a new formulation; That is, it forms a new formation, and this is what we call the word (formation).
Applied arts: craft works that produce works that are characterized by beauty and need the artistic sense to produce them.