The importance of art:
Art has great economic importance in society, as it plays a vital role in increasing the gross domestic product, which contributes to the development of the country's economy.
Art helps provide more job opportunities in various fields, in addition to its role in improving living.
Art carries great cultural importance in society, as it contributes to shedding light on social values ??such as freedom of expression.
Art is one of the means that helps to enhance and develop creativity, thinking and imagination skills.
Art has a positive effect on a person’s mental health, because it greatly helps to improve the mood, as we have previously talked about that art is the epitome of beauty and seeing beauty in itself brings joy and happiness to the soul.
Art aims to spread beauty, goodness, and truth in society, to contribute to changing society for the better.
Art departments:
1. Vocal Arts: These are cinema, theatre, poetry, singing, music and intonation.
2. Plastic Arts: It is represented in engineering, architecture, design, calligraphy, drawing, photography and sculpture.
3. Kinetic Arts: It is represented in some types of sports, dance, circus and magic games, in addition to puppet and acrobat theaters, in addition to mime theatre.
The most prominent types of art:
After reviewing the sections of art in the past, we will talk about the most important types, as follows:
1. The art of music: its beginnings go back to the human being being influenced by the natural sounds surrounding him, such as the sound of thunder, rain, and birds, until musical instruments were invented, and it is divided into several types, including classical and Arabic music.
2. Architecture: Its beginnings go back to drawing caves, and then it evolved into building houses and buildings such as palaces and pyramids. It is represented in the design and implementation of facilities.
3. The art of drawing: It is one of the most powerful means that translate feelings and conflicts, and it has many types such as engineering drawing, plastic drawing, and illustration, and it has a great ability to enhance human emotion.
4. The art of poetry: It consists of phrases divided into verses that are distinguished by equal weight and rhyme. Its types vary according to the theme of the poetry itself.
5. The art of cinema: It consists of several scenes that include a dialogue between two or more people to represent a story, whether in reality or imagination.
6. Sculpture art: It consists of designing statues of humans or animals, in which the artist uses several tools such as carving rocks or wax, and is used to express a memorial or historical purpose.
