Art.. human creativity
Enlarge textMinimize textOnly text
Art or the arts is a human creative product, and it is considered a color of human culture, because it is an expression of subjectivity, and not an expression of a person's need for the requirements of his life, although some scholars consider art as a necessity of life for a person like water and food.
Art is considered a creative product of man, in which he forms materials to express his thoughts, or translate his feelings, or what he sees of images and forms that he embodies in his works.
The semantic meaning of the word (art)
Currently, the word (art) is used to denote creative works that are subject to the general sense, such as the art of dance, music, singing, writing, composition, or composing. This is an expression of creative talent in many artistic skills, and humans began practicing arts 30 thousand years ago. . The drawing consisted of animal shapes and symbolic abstract signs on the walls of the caves. Thousands of years ago, humans adorned themselves with adornments, jewelry, and dyes.
"Art" is the aesthetic expression of a specific idea or taste, and it is a very wide and rich field such as painting, theatre, cooking, cinema, music, architecture, painting arts, design... etc. All of these arts have their own fields, and There are those who define art as a human activity that carries the connotations of conscience, sensation and feeling (the imprint of the human soul).
Perhaps the main function of art is to refine the human psyche, and elevate it to the highest levels of aesthetic expression.
From time immemorial, art expresses identity
In most of the major ancient societies, human identity was known through the expressive artistic forms that indicated him, as in the models and styles of his clothes, the decoration of the body, its adornment, the customs of dancing, or the ceremonial, or the collective symbolism of signs that was represented in the totem (substance) that indicates Ali his tribe or clan. The totem was decorated with inscriptions to tell the story of its ancestors, or their history. In small societies, the arts expressed their life or culture. Celebrations and dances reflected the biographies of their ancestors, their legends about creation, or sermons and educational lessons.
Many peoples used art as a way to get help from the spiritual world in their lives. In the great societies, the rulers used to hire artists to do work that served their political direction, as was the case in the countries of the Incas in Latin America. The upper class used to accept clothes, jewelry, and metalwork for their adornment during the 15th centuries AD. and 16 m. To indicate their social status, while the lower class wore rough and shabby clothes.
Arts in the fabric of our contemporary lives
Currently, we find that arts are employed in large societies for commercial, political, religious, cultural, or advertising purposes, and are subject to intellectual protection. This book is for presentation and analysis.
