
(3)

As said, ” Respect your body, its the only one you get.” 
One should always prioritize his or her health. The word health Implies the state of being free from illness and gives the idea of being well. 
Health and Fitness both go hand in hand. Being healthy has a lot of advantages, and there are ways of being healthy and fit in simple terms being healthy 
and fit means taking good care of the body. A healthy mind endures only in a fit and healthy body. 
A happy mind and a fit body help you maintain the energy to achieve success in life. All of us must aim high to achieve wholesome health.

We live in a world where our life is stressful. We have to go to schools, prepare for exams, tuitions, etc.
 And for maintaining this daily routine, we need a healthy mind and focused mind. As time goes on, we have changed, our lifestyle has changed, 
and we are more prone to eating junk rather than eating healthy home food.

Unhealthy eating can be harmful and can lead to different illnesses. We should eat good nutritious food which is rich in proteins and vitamins. 
It will help in body growth, give energy, and boost our immune system. Healthy food habits help in preventing various illnesses. 
Having organic or food containing fiber helps in cleaning the inner body. Pulses, fruits. Vegetables should be a daily diet for a healthy body. 
Daily exercises are also essential. Playing various outdoor games helps the body to maintain fitness. Regular morning walk to keep you fresh as well as fit.
 Drinking water is also an important part of having a fit and healthy body.

Most people often make mistakes by skipping meals or by doing excessive exercise in order to lose weight. Eating medicines, a cup of soup, 
or just one meal in a day will not help maintain a healthy body. It will slow down your metabolism and lead to gaining more weight, which will make you feel tired and stressed. 
An Unhealthy and unfit lifestyle also results in premature death. Obesity and lack of physical fitness set the stage for diabetes, heart disease, and other serious health problems.

It is very important to eat proper meals at the appropriate time.
 We can even get help from a dietitian or a nutritionist who can help us with the adequate quantity of food we should intake in our everyday routine. 
They can assess, diagnose, recommend, and treat various medical diagnoses and dietary problems primarily on one-on-one. This will help us to maintain our body fit and healthy.

Green leafy vegetables should be eaten. A balanced diet is vital. A proper quantity of fiber, protein, and vitamin should be taken, and we should do regular fitness workout. 
Regular exercises are essential as it helps to boost up your energy to keep working. Good healthy food and daily activities will help you to stay fit and healthy.

We must maintain being fit as well as having healthy food. At some point in time, our schedule or the hectic lifestyle hampers our diet and physique. 
Thus we must find alternate ways to keep ourselves healthy. We can walk using stairs instead of lifts or walk to nearby places instead of taking a vehicle. 
Maintaining a proper sleeping hour is also very important in forming a healthy lifestyle. 
School-age children or teens should sleep for at least 9.5 hours, and adults should get 7-9 hours of sleep.

However, staying fit also helps in using our maximum strength capacity. Not a single day should be skipped for making efforts to maintain physical and mental fitness. 
Staying healthy does help not only physically but also emotionally. Right mental health forms when there is no stress and proper airing of emotion. 
People who are not mentally fit or have problems letting out emotions often affect their health, which leads to panic attacks or any other health problems.

Therefore fitness leads to good health. A fit person can overcome diseases and can lead to an active and stress-free lifestyle.
 Thus we must concentrate on our health, have good nutritious food, sleep well, and exercise regularly.























































